in the Koran God calls our attention to
a very interesting attribute of the sky
we made the sky a preserved and
protected roof yet still they turn away
from our signs
this attribute of the sky has been
proved by scientific research done in
the 20th century the atmosphere
surrounding the earth serves crucial
functions for the continuity of life
while destroying many meteors B and
small as they approach the earth it
prevents them from falling to earth and
harming living things
in addition the atmosphere filters the
light rays coming from space that are
harmful to living beings interestingly
the atmosphere lets only harmless and
useful rays visible light near
ultraviolet light and radio waves pass
through all of this radiation is vital
for life near ultraviolet rays which are
only partially let in by the atmosphere
are very important for the
photosynthesis of plants and for the
survival of all living beings the
majority of the intensive ultraviolet
rays emitted from the Sun are filtered
out by the ozone layer of the atmosphere
and only a limited and essential part of
the ultraviolet spectrum reaches the
earth
the protective function of the
atmosphere does not end here the
atmosphere also protects the earth from
the freezing cold of the space which is
about minus 270 degrees centigrade
it is not only the atmosphere that
protects the earth from harmful effects
in addition to the atmosphere the Van
Allen belts a layer caused by the
magnetic field of the earth also serves
as a shield against the harmful
radiation that threatens our planet
this radiation which is constantly
emitted by the Sun and other stars is
deadly to living things
if the Van Allen belt did not exist
massive outbursts of energy called solar
flares but occur frequently in the Sun
would destroy all life on Earth
the energy transmitted in just one of
these flashes detected in recent years
was calculated to be the equivalent to
100 billion atomic bombs similar to the
one dropped on Hiroshima
58 hours after the flash it was observed
that the magnetic needles of compasses
displayed unusual movement and 250
kilometers above the Earth's atmosphere
the temperature suddenly increased to
2500 degrees Celsius in short a perfect
system is at work high above the earth
it surrounds our world and protects it
against external threats scientists only
learned about it recently yet centuries
ago we were informed in the Quran about
the world's atmosphere functioning as a
protective shield